---
title: 북리뷰 Mr. Summer's Story by Patrick Suskind
description: This is book review 
featuredImage: ""
toc: true
authors: byeonghui-won
tags:
categories: 
series: BookReview
date: '2021-10-08'
lastmod: '2021-10-08'
draft: false
---

[Part 3 page 45]
After a time, though, I remembered Mr. Sommer's face when I'd seen it through the rear window, his rain-dripping face with half-open mouth and enormous eyes with their ghastly expression, and I thought: You don't look like that for fun; no one looks like that when he's just doing something for fun and because he enjoys it. That's the expression of someone who's terrified; or someone who's thirsty, who's walking in the rain but feels such a thirst in him he could drink a whole lake. And once more I felt dizzy, and I tried as hard as I could to forget Mr Sommer's face, but the harder I tried to forget it, the more vividly I could picture it to myself: I could see its every wrinkle and line, every bead of sweat and drop of rain, the faint trembling of the lips, seeming to mumble something. And the mumbling grew louder and more distinct, and I could hear Mr Sommer's voice saying imploringly, ‘Why don't you leave me in peace! Can't you just leave me in peace…!’ 

And it was only now, when I heard his voice, that I could stop thinking about him. His face vanished, and I quickly fell asleep. 

In my class at school there was a girl called Carolina Kuckelmann. She had dark eyes, dark eyebrows and dark-brown hair which she wore with a slide over her right temple. On the back of her neck and in the little hollow between her earlobe and her throat, her skin had a light, downy fluff on it, which shone in the sunlight and sometimes just stirred in the wind. When she laughed with her wonderfully throaty voice, she threw her head right back and her whole face would beam with merriment, so that her eyes were almost closed. I could have gone on looking at that face for ever, and I did look at it whenever I could, in lesson or during break. But I was careful to do it discreetly, so that no one saw me looing, not even Carolina herself, because I was terribly shy.

In my dreams I wasn’t so shy. There I would take her by the hand and lead her into the woods and climb trees with her. Sitting beside her on a branch, I would gaze into her face from very close, and tell her stories. She would laugh, throw her head back and close her eyes, and I was allowed to blow on the fluffy hairs on her neck and in front of her ears. I had such dreams several times a week. I’m not complaining, they were beautiful dreams, but they were just dreams, and like all dreams they couldn’t ever be really satisfying. I would have given anything to have Carolina with me in reality, just once, and blow on her neck or whatever … Unfortunately there was very little prospect of that ever happening, because, like most of the class, Carolina lived in Obernsee, while I was the only one who lived in Unternsee. Our ways parted just outside the school gates, and went in opposite directions down School Hill across the meadow and into the woods, and into the woods, and, by the time they disappeared into the woods, they were already so far apart that I could not identify Carolina among the group of the other children. Only sometimes I would still be able to pick up her laughter. In certain weathers, when the wind blew from the south, her throaty laughter would carry across the fields to me and accompany me all the way home. But when did we ever have a south wind! 

One day — a Saturday — a miracle occurred. Bang in the middle of break, Carolina came running up, stopped in front of me and said, ’Hey! You're always going to Unternsee by yourself, aren't you?’ 
’Yes,’ I said. 
’Well! On Monday I'll be coming with you ... ’ 
And then she added a lot of explanation, there was a friend of her mother's who lived in Unternsee, and then her mother would come over to pick her up from this friend's house, and then she and her mother, or she and the mother's friend, or she and her mother and her mother's friend ... I can't remember, I've forgotten, and I think even as she was telling me it went in one ear and out the other, because I was so amazed, so overcome by her saying, ’On Monday I'll be coming with you!’ that I didn't or couldn't take in anything else, just that one wonderful sentence: ‘On Monday I'll be coming with you!' 

For the rest of the day, in fact, for the whole weekend, that sentence kept sounding in my ear, it sounded so wonderful — ah, come on! it sounded more wonderful than anything I'd read in the Brothers Grimm, more wonderful than the promise of the princess in ’The Frog Prince’ where she says, ‘Eat from my little golden plate, and drink out of my cup, and sleep in my little bed,’ and I counted the days with still greater impatience than Rumpelstiltskin: 
Today I stew, and then I'll bake 
Tomorrow I shall the Queen's child take! 

I felt like Hans in Luck and Brother Lustig and the King of the Golden Mountain all rolled into one ‘On Monday I'll be coming with you!’ 
I made preparations. On Saturday and Sunday I combed the woods to find the most fitting route. Because it was obvious that I couldn't just take Carolina my usual way. I wanted her to try out my most secret paths with me, I wanted to show her my most hidden, out-of-the-way sights. The way to Obernsee was to pale in her memory, compared to the wonders she would be shown on my, or rather on our, way to Unternsee. 

After long deliberation I fixed on a route that turned off the road just after the woods began, went through a narrow defile up to a plantation of young fir trees, and from there over mossy ground to a deciduous wood, before making quite a steep descent to the lake. This route boasted no fewer than six sights that I proposed to show Carolina, with the benefit of an expert commentary from myself. These were, in order, as follows:
a)	a transformer hut beloing to the electricity company, just off the main road, which emitted a continuous, just off the main road, which eitted a continuous buzz, and whose door had a yellow sign on it with a red lighting flash and the words: ‘Caution - High Voltage - Danger of Death!’; 
b)	b) a clump of seven raspberry bushes including some ripe berries; 
c)	a manger for deer — presently without any hay in it, but with a big salt lickstone instead; 
d)	d) a tree that an old Nazi was supposed to have hanged himself from shortly after the War; 
e)	an anthill four feet across and almost three feet high, and, finally, the last, crowning item on the tour; 
f)	a superb old beech tree which I intended to climb with Carolina, with a big fork in it about thirty feet up, from where we would have an incomparable view of the lake, and I might lean across to her and blow on her neck.

I pilfered a packet of biscuits from the kitchen cupboard, a jar of yogurt from the fridge, and a couple of apples and a bottle of blackcurrant juice from the cellar. I packed all of that up in a shoebox, and left it up in the fork on Sunday afternoon, so that we’d have some provisions waiting for us. In bed that night I made up the stories I would tell Carolina to make her laugh, one story for the walk, the other for our sojourn in the beech tree. I switched the light on again, took a little screwdriver from the drawer of my bedside table and put it in my school satchel, as one of my most prized possessions, to be presented to her when we parted tomorrow. Back in bed again, I went over both stories, went over the agenda for the next day in considerable detail, went through the stops on the way from a) to f) several times, and the time and place where I’d present her with the screwdriver, went over the contents of the shoebox which was even now lying out in the woods in the tree-fork, waiting for us - was ever a rendezvous more thoroughly prepared! - and finally I drifted off to sleep, accompanied by her sweet words, ‘On Monday I'll be coming with you ... On Monday I'll be coming with you ... ’ 

Monday when it dawned was a peach of a day, gentle sunshine, the sky clear and blue as water, the blackbirds singing and the sound of woodpeckers echoing through the woods. It was only now, as I was on my way to school, that I realized that in all my preparations I'd completely failed to make any allowance for the possibility of bad weather. My entire route from a) to f) would have been a disaster in rain or high wind - the raspberry bushes despoiled, an unsightly anthill, squeaky wet moss under foot, the beech tree too slippery to climb, and my box of provisions either sodden or else completely blown away. I abandoned myself delightedly to these morbid imaginings, they filled me with sweet, superfluous alarm, and gave me a positively triumphal sensation of happiness: not only had I not given the weather a moment's thought - no, the weather had gone out of its way in thinking about me! Not only was I allowed to accompany Carolina Kuckelmann today - no, to cap it all, I was handed the finest day of the year for it too! Truly, I was a Sunday child. The kindly eye of the Creator rested on me personally. Only see - I thought to myself - that you don't kick over the traces while fortune smiles on you! Pride and overexuberance led to last- minute mistakes, it was always happening in fairy-tales, the heroes wrecked the happiness they thought was securely in their grasp! 
I started walking faster. On no account did I want to be late for school. During lessons I behaved impeccably as never before, so that the teacher should not have the slightest pretext for possibly detaining me. I was both quiet and attentive, meek and smarmy, a proper model pupil. I didn't look across to Carolina once, I compelled myself not to, not yet, I wouldn't allow myself, superstitiously almost, as though by a premature look I would jeopardize her... 
 When school was finished, it turned out that the girls had to stay behind for an hour, I can't remember why, maybe it was for needlework or something. At any rate, only we boys were let out. I wasn't at all put out by that - quite the opposite. I thought of it as an additional test for me, one that I would pass with flying colours, and it also gave the long-awaited assignation with Carolina a kind of special distinction: we would have waited a whole extra hour for each other! 
I waited at the parting of the ways to Obernsee and Unternsee, barely twenty yards beyond the school gates. There was a rock there, an erratic, a smooth slab that had broken off some larger mass. In the middle the rock bore a hollow indentation in the form of a hoof. People said this indentation had been caused by the Devil stamping his foot on the ground with rage because the farmers had built a church near by, way back in the mists of time. I sat down on the rock and whiled away the minutes by flicking drops of water from a puddle that had formed in the Devil's print. The sun was warm on my back, the sky was still cloudless azure, I sat and waited and flicked water, I had nothing on my mind, and felt just incredibly happy with my situation. 
At last the girls came out. First a whole surge of them rushed past me, and then, the last one of all, she. I got to my feet. She ran up to me, her dark hair flying, the slide in her bangs bouncing up and down, she had a lemon-yellow dress on, I held out my hand, she stopped in front of me, as close as she'd been that time in break, I wanted to reach out for her hand, I wanted to pull her to me, how I would have loved to give her a hug and kiss her smack in the middle of her face, she said, ’Hey! Were you waiting for me?’ ’Yes,’ I said. 
’Hey! I can't come with you after all. My mother's friend isn't well, and my mother won't be visiting her, and so my mother said I should ... ’ 
And there followed a lengthy explanation that I mostly didn't even hear, let alone take in, because I suddenly had a strange feeling of deafness in my head and unsteadiness in my legs, and the only thing I really remember is that when she'd said her piece she quickly spun on her heel and her lemon-yellow form ran off in the direction of Obernsee, very fast, to catch up with the other girls. 
I headed for home down School Hill. I must have been walking very slowly, because by the time I reached the edge of the woods, and automatically looked across to the distant path to Obern5ee, there was no one to be seen. I stopped, turned round and looked back up at the round outline of School Hill. The meadows lay full in the sun, not a breath of wind stirred the grass. The scene was one of absolute stillness. 
And then I saw a little moving point. A dot, on the very left edge of the woods, making its way seadily across to the right, along the perimeter of the wood, up School Hill and along the top of it, along the creast, heading south. Silhouetted against the blue of the sky, though no bigger than an ant, you could clearly see it was a man. I recognized Mr Sommer by his three legs. Regular as clockwork, in tiny tick-tick steps, his legs hurried on, and faraway dot slid – at once quickly and slowly, like the long hand of the clock – right across the horizon.



애들이 볼 책은 아닌 것 같은, 독일 작가 파트리크 쥐스킨트(Patrick Suskind)가 발표한 단편이다. 

## 줄거리

나레이터는 어느 바람부는 날 학교에서 집으로 돌아오는 길에 팔을 벌리지 않아도 스키 점퍼처럼 비스듬히 몸을 기댈 수 있을 정도로 강한 바람이 불어 거의 날아갈 뻔했는데 그때 코트의 단추를 풀고 코트 꼬리를 양손으로 잡고 날개처럼 펼치면 날 수는 있지만 내려오는 것이 생각나지 않아 외투의 단추를 풀지 않았으며 때 마음만 먹으면 날 수 있다고 확신한 어린 소년이다. 독일 시골의 어린 소년의 감상적이지 않은 대신 호감가는 설명으로 영리하고 상상력이 풍부하고 논리적인 소년이 다른 아이들과 반대 방향으로 사는 등 어려움을 겪지만 나무타기, 자전거타기, 그리고 그의 급우 중 한 명인 사랑스러운 캐롤라이나와의 이야기, 펑켈 여사의 피아노 레슨의 장면들로 성장해 나가는 모습은 Suskind의 섬세한 글과 Jean-Jacques Sempe의 수채화 속의 유머와 함께 독자에게 전달된다. 

일반적으로 제목에서마저 Mr.Summer가 나왔다면 응당 Mr.Summer는 나레이터 소년과의 친분을 쌓는게 당연하겠지만 독일저자에게는 그러한 것이 전혀 없다. 나레이터인 소년은 겨우 3피트 4인치에 신발사이즈가 소년사이즈로 10인 아이가 5피트 7인치에 신발사이즈 7의 신발을 신고 담배를 반쯤 피워본 아이로 커가는 동안 우박이 쏟아지는 폭풍우에서 그의 아버지와 Mr.Summer가 대화하는 모습을 가까이 본것이 거의 유일하고 딱 세번 멀리서 쳐다본일이 있을 뿐이다. 

Mr.Summer씨는 폭풍이 우박으로 변해오는 가운데 "Why don't you just leave me in peace!" 라는 Mr Sommer의 외침으로 나레이터 소년에게 처음 목소리를 들려주었다. 이 마을과 이 마을의 주민과 가족과 나레이터에게 각색된 진실이 생생하리 전달되고 있었고 세월이 캐롤라이나와의 이야기와 펑켈선생님의 피아노수업과 자전거 타기가 심화되면서 흘러가고 나레이터의 Mr.Summer에 대한 관심은 그를 특별히 알고 있는 사람도 없었지만 이미 너무 많이 봤기 때문에 그를 당연하게 여겼고 그의 절망을 의식할 겨를이 없는것처럼 보인다. 이 책을 행복과 외로움과 우울한 배경에 방치된 영혼의 끊임없는 고뇌를 단순하고 의도적으로 보여준다고밖에 보이지 않는다. 

이름 없는 나레이터의 어린 시절은 이야기대로 꽤나 유머러스하게 진행된다고 해서 이 책이 아이들이 볼 동화책이냐고 묻는다면, "애들이 볼 책은 아닌 것 같아요." 라고 말해주고 싶다. 이것은 어른을 위한 동화책이다. 이 책에는 또한 Lower Lake에 사는 나레이터가 Upper Lake에 사는 캐롤라이나를 포함한 친구들과 떨어져 어린 시절을 혼자 보내는 양극화의 문제점도 있다. 자녀를 가진 다음 아이들에게 어른스러운 문제인 외로움, 편견, 우울, 죽음 등에 알려줄시기가 되었을 때 이야기를 들려주는 것이 좋을것이다. 나는 이 책을 즐겼다고 말하고 싶다. 큰 활자와 넉넉한 여백과 중간중간 삽화덕에 120페이지의 책은 절반정도의 소설크기밖에 되지 않아 단숨에 넘겨볼 수 있는 책이며 서두르지 않고 천천히 읽는다면 진지하게 생각할 수 있는 시간을 주기에 적절한 책 이라는 것은 분명하며 잠시 잊어버렸던 물리공식을 다시볼 수 있었다. 공식은 다음과 같다.

+ d = ½g x t2 – 낙하거리는 시간 제곱에 의한 중력 곱의 절반과 같다.

+ v = g x t – 낙하속도는 중력 곱하기 시간
